---
name: 'DURA‑CPS: A Multi‑Role Orchestrator for Dependability Assurance in LLM‑Enabled Cyber‑Physical Systems'
speakers:
  - Trisanth Srinivasan
  - Santosh Patapati
  - Himani Musku
  - Idhant Gode
  - Aditya Arora
  - Samvit Bhattacharya
  - Abubakr Nazriev
  - Sanika Hirave
  - Zaryab Kanjiani
  - Srinjoy Ghose

room: 'DSN2025'
categories:
  - AI for V&V
  - 'Chair: Peter Popov'
---

Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS) increasingly depend on
advanced AI techniques to operate in critical applications.
However, traditional verification and validation methods
often struggle to handle the unpredictable and dynamic
nature of AI components. In this paper, we introduce
CPS-Guard, a novel framework that employs multi-role
orchestration to automate the iterative assurance process
for AI-powered CPS. By assigning specialized roles (e.g.,
safety monitoring, security assessment, fault injection,
and recovery planning) to dedicated agents within a
simulated environment, CPS-Guard continuously evaluates and
refines AI behavior against a range of dependability
requirements. We demonstrate the framework through a case
study involving an autonomous vehicle navigating an
intersection with an AI-based planner. Our results show
that CPS-Guard effectively detects vulnerabilities, manages
performance impacts, and supports adaptive recovery
strategies, thereby offering a structured and extensible
solution for rigorous V&V in safety- and security-critical
systems.
