---
name: 'A Hybrid Cybersecurity Assessment Framework for Unmanned Aircraft Vehicles Based on IMECA and Penetration Testing'
speakers:
  - Artem Abakumov
  - Vyacheslav Kharchenko
  - Peter Popov
room: 'DSN2025'
categories:
  - Autonomous Vehicles
  - 'Chair: David Pereira'
---

Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) are increasingly being used
for a variety of applications, including monitoring
critical infrastructures, wildfires and military
operations. The use of consumer-grade UAVs in security and
safety-critical operations makes these systems highly
susceptible to cyber threats. This paper proposes a hybrid
UAV cybersecurity assessment framework that combines the
structured analytical method IMECA (Intrusion Modes and
Effects Criticality Analysis) with practical vulnerability
exploitation (penetration testing) procedures. The approach
includes detailed information gathering, identification of
known and zero-day vulnerabilities, risk-based threat
analysis and modelling, and penetration testing. A key
element of this methodology is the utilisation of
IMECA-based analysis of criticality mode and intrusion
consequences, both in its preliminary and a posteriori
forms, to assess the operational impact of threats and
develop appropriate countermeasures. The proposed concept
bridges the gap between theoretical risk assessment and
penetration testing in real-world conditions, providing
practical recommendations for improving cyber resilience
UAVs. The paper describes each stage of the method and
provides an example of an IMECA application. Further work
will focus on empirical verification of specific examples
and enhancing the framework using simulation to assess
risks of exploiting zero-day vulnerabilities and suggest
proactive countermeasures.
