---
name: 'Refining Environmental Requirements for Autonomous Driving Systems: Leveraging the FRAV Framework'
speakers:
  - Mahwish Kundi
  - Faraz Ahmad
  - Rosemary Monahan
room: 'DSN2025'
categories:
  - Regular papers
---

Safety and reliability requirements are fundamental for any
Autonomous Driving System (ADS) to ensure optimal
performance, regulatory compliance, and overall safety.
However, the standardization of ADS requirements remains a
challenge due to the complexity of AI-based systems. This
study initially focused on obtaining a textual description
of the environmental requirements of ADS. A detailed
literature review revealed a lack of structured information
in this domain. Consequently, we identified the Functional
Requirements for Automated Vehicles (FRAV) framework as a
viable source for defining the environmental requirements
of ADS.
To evaluate the completeness of these requirements, we
performed a comparative analysis of environmental
attributes with the Safety Controller for Autonomous
Driving (SCAD) case study and the FRAV framework.  This
comparison highlights how existing formal approaches
address real-world environmental factors and identifies
potential gaps that need further refinement.
This study initiates the verification and validation
process for ADS through the elicitation of relevant
requirements.  In the future, these requirements will be
further refined by adopting a set of activities such as
cognitive linguistics, crowd-based requirement engineering,
and empirical validation with industry experts. In
addition, traceability from the natural language
requirements to their formal specification using the Formal
Requirements Elicitation Tool (FRET) will be implemented to
support the validation and verification of the ADS
requirements. Our proposed approach can contribute to
obtaining safer and more stable ADS requirements while also
having the potential to serve as a standardized framework
for eliciting AI-based requirements in future systems.
